both Israelis and Palestinians are
marking six months of War on Sunday our
chief International correspondent Le
duet is monitoring events for us she
reports now from Southern Israel today a
memorial service is being held here
there's been a press conference where
members loved ones of those who lost
their lives here are expressing not just
pain but anger asking why the Israeli
Security Forces weren't here on this day
to protect them saying that they still
feel
abandoned one of the people who did
survive to tell the story was a
photographer shy kind Klein whitesman
binstein who has now returned to the
United States but as the Rockets started
being fired by Hamas he took at his
camera and started filming this is some
of what he
[Applause]
saw
and Chine veinstein joined us earlier
from the US city of
Denver I was at my first music festival
I wasn't expecting it to end with us
driving by gunmen and over
corpses when what was the moment when
you realized it was no longer a music
festival after the Rockets began at 6:30
and they didn't stop I started to get
worried that it wasn't just rockets and
they went on for a while you know the
Rockets began at 6:30 and we actually
physically got to our car at about 7:51
in the morning so it's over an hour
later and the rockets hadn't stopped and
at that point I was growing increasingly
more anxious and concerned about the
situation um behind me as I'm speaking
to you I'm at the site of the festival
there's now a sea of Israeli flags of
photographs um those who who died here
on that day they may include some of
your friends would you like to tell us
about the people who were with you on
that day who didn't
Escape so I was with a group of eight of
us total myself my cousin morai is now
fiance Tamara and several mutual friends
of ours Yael Ellie Barack Doras and
almog and I'm very grateful to say that
they all escaped but some of the people
I made friends with at the festival
including dor autan who was my age at
the time 26 and Ron schaer were
murdered and you returned to the United
States and I understand that since then
you have been trying to keep the memory
of what happened on that day
alive yes correct um Israel is still my
permanent residence although now I've
been away from the country the exact the
same amount of time as I've lived there
I moved there last April I've only been
there till October I've now been away
since then um and I've been going to
University campuses across the country
I've been to 157 different cities since
November Canada the US East Coast West
Coast all of the above uh sharing my
photos my videos my story and just
letting people know what happened to us
and letting people know that even though
this horrible tragic thing that occurred
to cause us Terror isn't going to keep
us
down and how do people react to you in
the stories you
tell I've had a mostly positive response
I've had a few instances where I've had
protesters but most of the time uh very
warm reception audiences from 5 to 500
people I've even had people who are prop
Palestinian comes to me speak I've had
Palestinian students come see me speak
I've had black Israelites come see me
speak people who don't know anything
about what's going on who just want to
hear more and many people are
sympathetic and interested in in hearing
what I have to say and having a very
reasonable
discussion and that was shy kle
Feinstein who was here during those
horrific events of October the 7th that
day shook Israel to the core and shocked
many around the world Israel's
staunchest allies including the United
States and Britain
immediately rushed in to show very
public and Powerful backing to Israel as
it launched retaliatory strikes intended
said the Israeli Army to destroy Hamas
but 6 months on as the death toll in
Gaza continues to climb and the UN says
the territory is on the brink of famine
there are loud calls including from
Israel's staunchest friends for an
immediate ceasefire for much more to be
done to get desperately needed Aid into
Gaza
in the past few days for the first time
Israel has opened the AZ Crossing in
Northern Israel into Gaza it has opened
the ashad port and it also says it will
accelerate the capacity through Jordan
will that be enough we're joined by
Cindy McCain who is the executive
director of the world food program
welcome to BBC
news thank
you thank you could you please first
describe to us
how bad is the situation in Gaza when it
comes to hunger as the UN said and as
what I have said also famine is eminent
in the north and and this is something
that if we wait much longer we're going
to go over the edge and not be able to
recover from it uh that's why it is so
important that we be able to get food at
scale in we at WP are uh grateful that
there's consideration to open the areas
eras uh border point and ashdod Port
we're hoping to see that happen very
soon uh all of those things and more can
along with the air drops along with
everything else that's going on will
help us get food in at scale but it
can't stop uh it can no longer be a
dribble of seven or eight trucks a day
or seven or eight trucks a week it has
to be multitudes of trucks and
quickly there have been calls right up
to the top of the United Nations so that
while welcoming these new moves saying
that all of the crossings should be open
and if not that it will still be
difficult to get the amounts of Aid in
that are needed is that also your
view that is absolutely our view uh we
would like every gate open we need to
get food in and get it in at scale as I
we can no longer uh wait to be
considered or wait to see if our drivers
are cleared or wait to see if they're
you know if if there's if the port if
the checkpoints actually going to be
open we need to get in now children are
dying as we speak they are dying of
hunger that's why it is so important
that we do what we do best and that is
take large amounts of food in and feed
those who are desperately
hungry as you know those who are
delivering the aid also feel at risk in
the wake of the killing of seven Aid
workers with World Central Kitchen some
agents genes suspended their operations
is it do you feel it is still safe for
your uh wfp staff to operate and are
they still doing
so well this is dangerous work no no
matter how you look at it but we at WP
are not going to to Halt or suspend any
of our operations we continue to do the
best we can to get Aid in uh again the
these new openings and these new uh
ports Etc we do get them to scale and
get them get them operational will be of
great help but we should have done it a
while ago uh this is something that that
uh that has has allowed uh the northern
part of Gaza to Simply die and so for
those of us at the UN that that work
with work on humanitarian principles and
and believe in delivering food and Aid
uh in a principled fashion uh we feel
very strongly about how how how much
needs go in and why we should be in
there and once again Aid workers should
be safe it was unconscionable that that
wck was hit it's it's a terrible
situation and but but let me say there's
been more Aid workers than just those
that have been killed and we're sorry
for all of them but we have to keep
going we have to you remember that in
the early months of this war you
criticize what you described as the
insane bureaucracy the the number of
security controls that Israel has
imposed that effect hold up the delivery
of Aid has that improved has the process
become
smoother the process has become smoother
yes it's still not 100% but let me say
it is much better than what it was a lot
of the confusion because we only had one
opening at that time and it was Rafa so
it wasn't just wfp trying to get in it
was hundreds of other agencies trying to
get Aid in and there was no real
controls on it now I can say that with
regards to un Aid agencies we go through
Kum Shalom we try to make it up the
fence road again that's why we need
other openings further north so we can
get our trucks in up through there and
get directly to to Northern
Gaza CD McCain one of the world's
biggest uh Aid agencies struggling to
deliver Aid to people who desperately
need it in Gaza welcoming those new
steps by Israel but like so many saying
much more needs to be done well that's
how it looks now on this day which marks
the six month Mark at the Israel Gaza
War we'll continue our special coverage
here in across the region but now I'll
hand you back to
London that was LE just said well our
International editor Jeremy Bowen has
also been covering the war since the
very start and has returned to one of
the kutes in Israel that was hardest hit
by the Hamas
attacks
six months after the attacks it's a bit
like going back into a time machine
because all the damage is still here and
the reason for that is that in this
kibutz near
Oz one in four of the population of more
than 400 people was either killed or
taken into Gaza which is a about a mile
away the Border as
hostages looking round at the damage
here and hearing the stories too of what
happened Hamas came in about 6:30 in the
morning and they were here till early
afternoon undisturbed going from house
to house until the Army
arrived the war's still going on that's
outgoing fire from an Israeli B near
here into
Gaza this is now one of the the typical
houses in this
kibutz abandoned burnt out 6 months on
it still smells of burning on the sofa
over there there's some neatly folded
laundry perhaps done the evening before
October the
7th going around this place you can
understand why Israelis believe very
strongly
that they're fighting a just war in Gaza
of course their allies feel the same
their quarrel is with the methods that
Israel has been using that have cost so
many innocent Palestinian lives and as
for the family who lived here in this
house they're
dead there's also a long read by our
International editor Jeremy boen on the
BBC News website and app so we do
encourage you to read that as well